I follow some difficult acts, but never before have I followed such a difficult act as I’ve seen the last 45 minutes up here. It’s my honor to host my fellow leaders from throughout our hemisphere for the ninth Summit of the Americas. At a moment when we need more cooperation, common purpose, and transformative ideas that have never been a greater need than today. I also want to welcome all the representatives from civil society, the private sector, international institutions, and especially young people from across the Americas who are participating in this summit. Democracy is a hallmark of our region. Our inter-American democratic charter, which grew out in the third Summit of the Americas, captures our unique commitment to democracy as a region. It affirms the right of people throughout the Americas to democracy, and our obligation as governments to promote and defend democracy. As we meet again today in a moment when democracy is under assault around the world, let us unite again and renew our conviction that democracy is not only the defining feature of American histories, but the essential ingredient to America’s futures.
Folks, to state the obvious, our region is large and diverse. We don’t always agree on everything, but because we’re democracies, we work through our disagreements with mutual respect and dialogue. At this summit, we have an opportunity for us to come together around some bold ideas, ambitious actions, and to demonstrate to our people the incredible power of democracies deliver concrete benefits and make life better for everyone. Everyone. And no longer is this a question of what will we do? What will the United States do for the Americas? The question is what we can accomplish by working together, as true partners with diverse capabilities, but equal and mutual respect. Recognizing both our individual sovereignty and our shared responsibilities. The COVID-19 pandemic hit our region particularly hard. While we account for just 12% of the global population, we experienced more than 40% reported global pandemic related deaths. It’s an enormous tragedy that has left too many families grief stricken. An ensuing economic crisis triggered by the pandemic ravaged economies throughout the hemisphere, wiping out much of the hard earned progress we had made.
22 million more people fell into poverty in just the first year of the pandemic. Inequity continues to rise. Global inflammatory pressures were made worse by Putin’s brutal and unprovoked war against Ukraine and making it harder for families to make ends meet. And all these factors are contributing to vastly increased migration flows throughout our hemisphere, with too many people feeling there is no option available to them to provide for themselves and their families. These challenges affect all of us. All of our nations have a responsibility to step up and ease the pressure people are feeling today. In the months leading up to this summit countries have made meaningful and concrete commitments to address these challenges. And the United States is attempting to do our part as well. Yesterday, we launched our Cities Forward Initiative, recognizing the key roles of mayors and local governments, the role they play in delivering for the people where they live. And we’ll host the inaugural City Summoning of the Americas in Denver in 2023.
Earlier today, we announced a new America Health Corp with 50,000 public health and medical professionals being trained in the region over the next five years, to help strengthen our health systems throughout the hemisphere. In the next few days, we’ll be rolling out another new initiative, creating in cooperation with many of your countries. It includes the U.S. – Caribbean partnership to address the climate crisis, which the Vice President Harris will lead for our country. And the collaboration among the United States… The United States, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, and Mexico, the hemisphere’s largest exporters of food to increase food production for export as well as increased fertilizer production for transportation, transportation.
Our leaders, all of us, as we discuss ways to better target more than a half a billion dollars of the United States is devoting increasing security for our citizens. Working with partners to disrupt transnational criminal organizations, go after drug traffickers and elicit firearms, advancing anti-corruption efforts, and strengthening the rule of law. And tonight I’m announcing a new economic partnership. The bills on all the work we have done with the region and will guide our engagement going forward. We’re calling it America’s Partnership for Economic Prosperity. And it’s grounded on the same core values that my administration is bringing to our own strong economic recovery and to bolster long-term economic competitiveness in the United States. First, the American partnership will help economies grow from the bottom up and the middle out, not the top down. What’s true. What’s true in the United States is true in every country. Trickle down economics does not work.
But when we invest in strengthening workers and the middle class, the poor have a ladder up, and those at the top do just fine. That’s how we can increase opportunity and decrease persistent inequity. We need to break the cycle where marginalized communities are hit the hardest by disasters and have the fewest resources to recover from crises and prepare for the next one. Together, we have to invest in making sure our trade is sustainable and responsible in creating supply chains that are more resilient, more secure, and more sustainable. By working with close friends who share our values, we can make sure that we are not left vulnerable to unexpected shocks while generating economic opportunity for the people in our region. The second, the America’s Partnership will foster innovation, help governments deliver for their own people. People everywhere expect their government to help give them just a little bit of breathing room, provide opportunities for work that pays a decent wage, educate children so they can rise as high as their talents can take them, make communities more secure, so families feel safe in their homes and individuals know their rights will be respected.
That means directing investment to help governments deliver on those responsibilities, including modernizing multilateral development banks to better address the challenges of today and the future. For example, many countries in our region have prospered overall, making it harder for them to secure development lending, but they struggle with deep inequity. I’m proposing the fundamental reforms of the Inter-American Development Bank group. And the United States is ready to put our new capital in the bank’s private sector lending arm, the IDP Investment, to help capitalize on the critical flow of private capital in the region, especially to those startup digital connectivity, renewable energy and health. Third, the American Partnership will tackle the climate crisis head on with the same mentality we’re bringing to the work in the United States. When I hear climate, I think jobs. Good paying, high quality jobs will help speed our transition to a green economy of the future and unleash sustainable growth. Jobs in developing and deploying clean energy. Jobs in decarbonizing the economy. Jobs in protecting biodiversity of our hemisphere. Jobs provide dignity of being able to feed your family, give your children a better life and envision a future of possibilities.
That’s what this is all about. Responding to basic human desires that we share for dignity, for safety, for security. And when those basics are absent in one place, that’s when people make the desperate decision to seek them elsewhere. So on Friday we’ll also come together to launch a Los Angeles declaration, a groundbreaking integrated new approach to manage migration and sharing responsibility across the hemisphere. The declaration represents a mutual commitment to invest in regional solutions that enhance stability, increase opportunities for safe and orderly migration through the region, and crack down on criminal and human trafficking, who prey on desperate people.
Safe and orderly migration is good for all of our economies, including in the United States. It can be a catalyst for sustainable growth. But all unlawful migration is not acceptable. We will enforce our borders including through innovative, coordinated action with our regional partners. We’ve come a long way together since the United States hosted the first Summit of The Americas 28 years ago. But the spirit of Miami, as it was known, the sense of hope and new possibilities that define that first summit remains key to facing the challenge of today and unlocking incredible potential that exists in this hemisphere in the Americas. There’s no reason why the Western hemisphere shouldn’t be secure, prosperous, and democratic. From Canada’s Northern most reaches to the Southern tips of Chile. We have all the tools we need right here in our own hemisphere. Our people are dynamic and innovating. Our nations are committed to working in partnership. And our regions forever knit together by the close bonds of family and enduring friendship.
We see here in Los Angeles, as you heard earlier, a city that has been shaped from its earliest as days and strengthened over the decades by the rich and diverse contributions from people of all our nations. It’s written in the murals, the markets, the thoroughfares that crisscross the city. Bearing witness to the history, struggle, and indomitable spirit of the people of the Americans. This city is testament to the connections that bind us and our capacity to achieve great things together. So tonight, let’s enjoy a wonderful celebration. Let us leave here renewed with purpose and a renewed partnership. And tomorrow let’s get to work building the future this region deserve. Thank you all. And again, welcome, welcome, welcome.
Hello, everybody.
Good morning.
I just signed a request to Congress for critical security, economic, and humanitarian assistance to help Ukraine continue to counter Putin’s aggression, and at a very pivotal moment.
We need this bill to support Ukraine in its fight for freedom. And our NATO allies, our EU partners, they’re going to pay their fair share of the cost as well, but we have to do this. We have to do our part as well in leading the Alliance.
The cost of this fight is not cheap, but caving to aggression is going to be more costly if we allow it to happen. We either back Ukrainian people as they defend their country, or we stand by as the Russians continue their atrocities and aggression in Ukraine.
Every day, every day the Ukrainians pay the price, and the price they pay is with their lives for this fight. So we need to contribute arms, funding, ammunition, and the economic support to make their courage and sacrifice have purpose so they can continue this fight and do what they’re doing.
It’s critical this funding gets approved and approved as quickly as possible.
You know, long before Russia launched [inaudible 00:01:18] invasion, I made clear how the United States would respond, predicted they would invade, and they surely did. We said we would not send US troops to fight Russian troops in Ukraine, but we would provide robust military assistance and try to unify the Western world against Russia’s aggression.
I said I would impose powerful sanctions on Russia and that we would destroy this myth that somehow they can continue to move without the rest of the world acting, that we’d deploy additional forces to defend NATO territories, particularly in the east, along the Russian and Belarus borders. That’s exactly what we said we would do, and we did.
But despite the disturbing rhetoric coming out of the Kremlin, the facts are playing for everybody to see.
We’re not attacking Russia. We’re helping Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression. And just as Putin chose to launch this brutal invasion, he could make the choice to end this brutal invasion.
Russia is the aggressor, no ifs or buts about it. Russia is the aggressor, and the world must and will hold Russia accountable.
Russia’s continued assault is yielding immense human cost. We’ve seen them leave behind horrifying evidence of their atrocities and war crimes in the areas they try to control. And as long as the assaults and atrocities continue, we’re going to continue to supply military systems.You know, there’s a dinner this weekend to celebrate the press. Think of what the American press has done; the courage it’s taken to stay in these war zones, the courage it’s taken to report every single day. I’ve always had respect for the press, but I can’t tell you how much respect I have watching them in these zones where they’re under fire, risking their own lives to make sure the world hears the truth.
Imagine if we weren’t getting that information. It’d be a different world. It’d be a different circumstance.
In the past two months, Russia launched its brutal attack and we’ve moved weapons and equipment to Ukraine in record speed. Thanks to the aid we provided, Russian forces have been forced to retreat from Kyiv. Doesn’t mean they’re not going to try to come back, but they’ve retreated thus far.
We’ve sent thousands of anti-armor, anti-missiles, helicopters, drones, grenade launchers, machine guns, rifles, radar systems, more than 50 million rounds of ammunition.
The United States alone has provided 10 anti-armor systems for every Russian tank that is in Ukraine. 10 to one. We’re providing Ukraine significant timely intelligence to help them defend themselves against the Russian onslaught. And we’re facilitating a significant flow of weapons and systems to Ukraine from our allies and partners around the world, including tanks, artillery, and other weapons.
That support is moving with unprecedented speed. Much of the new equipment we’ve announced in the past two weeks has already gotten to Ukraine where it can be put to direct use on the battlefield.
However, we have almost exhausted what we call, the fancy phrase, “the draw down authority” that Congress authorized for Ukraine and a bipartisan spending bill last month. Basically we’re out of money.
And so that’s why today, in order to sustain Ukraine as it continues to fight, I’m sending Congress a supplemental budget request. It’s going to keep weapons and ammunition flowing without interruption to the brave Ukrainian fighters and continue delivering economic and humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian people.
This so-called supplemental funding addresses the needs of the Ukrainian military during the critical weeks and months ahead. And it begins to transition to longer term security systems that’s going to help Ukraine to deter and continue to defend against Russian aggression.
This assistance would provide even more artillery, armored vehicles, anti-armored systems, anti-air capabilities that have been used so effectively thus far in the battlefield by the Ukrainian warriors.
And it’s going to deliver much needed humanitarian assistance, as well as food, water, medicine, shelter, and other aid to Ukrainians displaced by Russia’s war, and provide aid for those seeking refuge in other countries from Ukraine.
It’s also going to help schools and hospitals open. It’s going to allow pensions and social support to be paid to the Ukrainian people so they have something in their pocket. It’s also going to provide critical resources to address food shortages around the globe.
Ukraine was one of the world’s largest agricultural producers and typically grows 10% of all the wheat that’s shipped around the world.
Putin has asserted sanctions are blocking food from Ukraine and Russia getting on the market; the sanctions we’ve imposed on Russia. Simply not true. Putin’s war, not sanctions, are impacting the harvest of food and disrupting the movement of that food by land and sea to nations around the globe that need it.
This funding is going to help ease rising food prices at home as well and abroad caused by Russia’s war in Ukraine. It’s going to help support American farmers produce more crops like wheat and oil seed, which is good for rural America, good for the the American consumer, and good for the world.
And this supplemental request will use the Defense Production Act to expand domestic production and the reserve of critical materials; materials like nickel and lithium that have been disrupted by Putin’s war in Ukraine, and that are necessary to make everything from defense systems to automobiles.
And I hope Congress will move on this funding quickly. I believe they will.
I want to thank Congress, Democrats and Republicans, for their support of the people of Ukraine.And next week, I will be in Alabama to visit Lockheed Martin plant that manufactures the Javelin anti-tank missile we have been sending to Ukraine, and to thank the American workers, thank them for producing the weapons that help stop Russia’s advances in Ukraine in cities like Kyiv. Their hard work has played a critical role in ensuring Putin’s strategic failure in Ukraine, and they should know that we know it.
In addition to this supplemental funding, I’m also sending to Congress a comprehensive package that will enhance our underlying effort to accommodate the Russian oligarchs and make sure we take their ill-begotten gains. We’re going to accommodate them. We’re going to seize their yachts, their luxury homes, and other ill-begotten gains of Putin’s kleptocracy, the guys who are the kleptocracy.
But these are bad guys. This legislative package strengthens our law enforcement capabilities to seize property linked to Russia’s kleptocracy.
It’s going to create new expedited procedures for forfeiture and seizure of these properties. And it’s going to ensure that, when the oligarch’s assets are sold off, funds can be used directly to remedy the harm Russia caused and help rebuild Ukraine.
Additionally, yesterday, Russia threatened two of our allies with a cutoff of energy supplies. While America has ended all Russian fossil fuel imports, because we’re able to use our vast supply of power in our country, some European countries have faced more challenges in reducing their reliance on Russian fuel.
Russia has long claimed to be “the reliable source of energy for the world.” No matter what the differences are, their customers are always going to be in good shape.
But these actions prove that energy is not just a commodity that Russia sells to help meet other countries’ needs, but a weapon used to deploy against those who stand against their aggression.
Let me be clear. We will not let Russia intimidate or blackmail their way out of these sanctions. We will not allow them to use their oil and gas to avoid consequences for their aggression. We’re working with other nations like Korea, Japan, [inaudible 00:09:56] and others to support our effort to help European allies threatened by Russia with gas blackmail and their energy needs in other ways.
Aggression will not win. Threats will not win. This is just another reminder of the imperative for Europe and the world to move more and more of our power needs to clean energy.
In the United States, we’re doing that right now. Last year, we developed more solar, wind and battery storage than any year in our history, enough to power 56 million American homes.
Earlier this month, we acted to bolster our reliance on our nuclear energy facilities, which generates more than half of our carbon free power. And we’re just getting started.
I look at this as a serious problem, but also an enormous opportunity. An opportunity.
Bottom line, all these actions we’ve been taking are about this truth: investing in Ukraine’s freedom and security is a small price to pay to punish Russian aggression, to lessen the risk of future conflicts.
You know, throughout our history, we’ve learned that when dictators do not pay the price for their aggression, they cause more chaos and engage in more aggression. They keep moving, and the cost, the threats to America and the world keep rising.
We can’t let this happen. Our unity at home, our unity with our allies and partners, and our unity with the Ukrainian people is sending an unmistakable message to Putin: “You will never succeed in dominating Ukraine.”
Finally, we’re going to continue to deliver critical support to Ukraine. We must also not let our guard down in our fight against COVID-19 at home and abroad.
That’s why I’m, again, urging Congress to act on my request for 22.5 billion dollars in emergency resources so the American people can continue to protect themselves from COVID-19.
The reason we were so successful in the past is because I was able to work with drug manufacturers to order significant quantities of material we needed ahead of time to get in the front of the line. Without additional funding, we can’t pre-order the amount of vaccines we need, and we risk losing our spot in line for vaccines that target multiple variants.
We’re running out of supply for therapeutics like antiviral pills that we desperately need. Without additional funding, we’re unable to purchase the life saving treatment for the American people.
We’ve donated more vaccines and treatments to the world than all other nations in the world combined. If the US won’t do it, no one else is really going to step up and do it. Without additional funding, the United States won’t be able to help stop the spread around the world and close off ongoing sources of the supply chain disruptions.
Look, let’s get both of these critical tasks done. No delays, no excuses. Just action. Now. Now. Thank you all. Thank you.
Watch your head, man. You’re going to get hurt.
We have made a direct means by which they can get from Europe, from Ukraine, directly to the United States without going to the southern border.
In the meantime, on the southern border, we’re trying to work through and make sure that it is an orderly process they’re able to get in.But just so you know, we have said, there’s no need to go to the southern border. Fly directly to the United States. We set up a mechanism whereby they can come directly with a visa.
They’re not true. They do concern me because it shows the desperation that Russia is feeling about their abject failure in being able to do what they set out to do in the first instance. And so I think it’s more of a reflection, not of the truth, but of their failure.
And so instead of saying that the Ukrainians equipped with some capability to resist Russian forces are doing this, they’ve got to tell their people the United States and all of NATO is engaged in taking out Russian troops and tanks, et cetera.
So number one, it’s an excuse for their failure, but number two, it’s also, if they really mean it, no one should be making idle comments about the use of nuclear weapons or the possibility they’d use that. It’s irresponsible.I can give you a straight answer. We had proposed to eliminate that policy by the end of May. The court has said we can’t so far, and what the court says, we’re going to do. The court could come along and say we cannot do that. And that’s it.
We are prepared for whatever they do.
First of all, as you know, Poland has indicated they have significant reserves of gas that they have planned for, as does, not as much, but as does Bulgaria. And we have worked with our allies from Japan on to say that we may divert our sale of the natural gas that we’re sending to those countries and divert it directly to Poland and Bulgaria.So that’s as much I can tell you right now.
Well, I’m not concerned about a recession. I mean, you’re always concerned about a recession, but …
The GDP fell to 1.4%, but here’s the deal. We also had, last quarter, consumer spending and business investment and residential investment increased at significant rates, both for leisure as well as hard products. Number one.
Number two, unemployment is at the lowest rate since 1970. A record 4.5 million businesses were created last year. We’re in a situation where we have a very different view than Senator Scott of the Republicans who want to raise taxes on the middle class families and want to include half the small business owners in that.
So I think what you’re seeing is enormous growth in the country that was affected by everything from COVID and the COVID blockages that we occurred along the way.
Now, you always have to take a look, and no one is predicting a recession now. Some are predicting there may be a recession and 2023.
I’m concerned about it, but I know one thing; that, you know, if our Republican friends are really interested in doing something about dealing with economic growth, they should help us continue to lower the deficit, which we’ve done last year; over 350 billion dollars. They should be willing to work with us to have a tax code that is actually one that works and everybody pays their fair share. And they should be in a position where you shouldn’t be raising taxes on middle class folks, you should be raising taxes on people who … Everyone acknowledges that the vast majority of Republicans aren’t paying their fair share.
I’ve said it a hundred times. You have 50 major corporations of the Fortune 500 companies made 40 billion dollars last year; didn’t pay a single penny. No one under our proposal, and again, $400,000 a year, will see a penny in their taxes go up. Not one penny.
Well, I don’t care how they do it. I’m sending them both up. I mean, they can do it separately or together, but we need them both.
Look, number one, first thing we did was reform the system that was in place that didn’t work for anybody, that allowed people to write off debt if they engaged in public service. We have almost 1,000,785 … Don’t hold me to the exact number. I’ll get the number. 700 and some thousand have had debt forgiven, their whole debt forgiven, because of their work, working as teachers or other means by which they qualify. And we continue to make that easier.
Secondly, I am considering dealing with some debt reduction. I am not considering $50,000 debt reduction, but I’m in the process of taking a hard look at whether or not there will be additional debt forgiveness, and I’ll have an answer on that in the next couple weeks. Thank you.
Thank you.
Wow. Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Attorney General Monaco, and Mia, you’re an incredible young woman. We spoke for a moment inside the Oval Office and a lot of people here who have lost someone, and too many here have lost someone, know that no matter what the occasion, how celebratory or not it is, when you have to repeat it, you relive it like it just happened a moment ago. Your poise, your confidence, and your intellect are really impressive, honey. I mean, they really are, and I think most people here can tell you’ve gone through serious loss, that the best way to deal with it is to purpose, and you found real purpose and you are impressive. Thank you for sharing your strength, for helping us remember your friend, Dominic Blackwell and Gracie Muehlberger. Dominic and Gracie’s parents are with us today. Are you prepared to stand up? I don’t want to embarrass you, but would you stand up? If you have a moment afterwards, maybe you can come in the Oval with me. If you wouldn’t mind, I’d love to talk to you.
Frank and Nancy, Bryan and Cindy, everyone here, as they say, feels your pain a little bit, particularly if they’ve suffered a serious loss. You’ve now joined a terrible fellowship of loss that many people have experienced. There are too many survivors and advocates here for me to name everyone today, but let me say the loss in this crowd is incalculable, but so is the strength, so is the strength. I believe our nation will be safer for your bravery, and I really mean that. Survivors like Mia and Manny and Claudia, a Los Angeles Deputy Sheriff who survived an ambush by a shooter with a ghost gun, represent individuals and families all across this country whose lives have been forever changed by a ghost gun. Some made national headlines, many others did not. Today, we honor your strength and your action.
A year ago this week, standing here with many of you, I instructed the Attorney General to write a regulation that would reign in the proliferation of ghost guns because I was having trouble getting anything passed in the Congress, but I used what we call “regulatory authority.” A year later, we’re here and we keep that promise. The gun lobby tried to tie up the regulators in paperwork for a long, long time. The NRA called this rule I’m about to announce, “extreme.” Extreme, but let me ask you, is it extreme to protect police officers, extreme to protect our children, extreme to keep guns out of the hands of people who couldn’t even pass a background check? Look, the idea that someone on the terrorist list could purchase one of these guns is extreme. It isn’t extreme, it’s just basic common sense.
If you buy a couch you have to assemble, it’s still a couch. If you order a package like this one over here, it includes the parts you need and the directions for assembling a functioning firearm, you bought a gun. Take a look. Take a look at this. It comes in this package. You can see the picture down here maybe. This is the gun. It’s not hard to put together. A little drill, hand drill at home. It doesn’t take very long. Anyone can order it in the mail. Anyone.
Folks, a felon, a terrorist, a domestic abuser can go from a gun kit to a gun in as little as 30 minutes. Buyers aren’t required to pass background checks because guns have no serial numbers, these guns. When they show up at a crime scene, they can’t be traced. Harder to find and prove who used them, meaning you can’t connect the gun to the shooter and hold them accountable.
In fact, the ATF reports that they’ve been able to trace less than 1% of ghost guns reported by law enforcement, so it makes sense that police across the country are increasingly finding ghost guns at crime scenes. By the way, ghost guns can be “rifles,” essentially assault weapons as well. This is just one version of the kit you can buy. Last year alone, law enforcement reported approximately 20,000 suspected ghost guns to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. That’s a tenfold increase in these ghost guns from 2016. Tenfold in five years.
These guns are weapons of choice for many criminals. We’re going to do everything we can to deprive them of that choice, and when we find them, put them in jail for a long, long time. Law enforcement is sounding the alarm. Our communities are paying the price and we’re acting. Today, the United States Department of Justice is making it illegal for a business to manufacture one of these kits without a serial number, illegal for a licensed gun dealer to sell them without a background check. Starting today, weapons like the one used in Saugus High School and to ambush deputies that are here with us today are being treated like the deadly firearms they are. If somebody sells a ghost gun to a federally- licensed dealer, for example, a pawn shop, that dealer…
… licensed dealer, for example. A pawn shop. That dealer must make the firearm and market with a serial number before reselling it. All of a sudden, it’s no longer a ghost. It has a return address. And it’s going to help save lives, reduce crime, and get more criminals off the streets. And this rule is only part of our strategy to go after ghost guns. In February, the department of justice launched a national ghost gun enforcement initiative, intensifying our efforts to bring cases against those who use ghost guns illegally. We’re teaching investigators and prosecutors best practices, how to build these cases. And assigning a coordinator in each of the ATF field divisions to serve as a point person for prepping federal, state, and local law enforcement to go after ghost guns. If you commit a crime with a ghost gun, expect federal prosecution, not just state. Expect federal prosecution.



