
… We gather. This week citizens across this state and across this nation are filled with grief in the wake of the heinous massacre of Robb Elementary School in Uvalde. You know all about that and what a horrible, horrible thing it was to see it, to watch it, to hear about it. The terrible murder of 19 innocent children and two adult teachers, with many badly injured, was a savage and barbaric atrocity that shocks the conscience of every single American, so horrible. I want to ask for a brief moment of silence as I read the names of these beautiful people, all young, wonderful lives ahead of them. Their brave teachers whose lives were destroyed by an out of control lunatic.
So we’ll start. Alexandria Rubio, Alithia Ramirez, Amerie Garza, Annabel Guadalupe Rodriguez, Eliahana Cruz Torres, Ellie Garcia, Jacklyn Cazares, Jailah Nicole Silguero, Jayce Luevanos, Jose Flores, Layla Salazar, Makenna Lee Elrod, Maite Rodriguez, Maranda Mathis, Nevaeh Bravo, Rojelio Torres, Tess Marie Mata, Uziyah Garcia, Javier Lopez. Two great and beautiful, brilliant teachers, Eva Morales, Irma Garcia. And thank you very much. It’s a beautiful moment of silence for something that should never have even been thought about, let alone happened. Each precious young soul that was taken is an incomprehensible loss, literally not comprehensible, stolen from us by a malice that no words can describe, sickness. The monster who committed this crime is pure evil, pure cruelty, pure hatred, absolute pure hatred. And while those he slaughtered are now with God in heaven, he will be eternally damned to burn in the fires of hell.
As we mourn for so many beautiful victims, I know that everyone here joins me in praying for the families who are suddenly missing the brightest light in their lives. We see their agony, we ask God to ease their suffering and to heal their pain and together we grieve side by side as one great American family. Now is the time to find common ground. Sadly before the sun had even set on the horrible day of tragedy, we witnessed a now familiar parade of cynical politicians seeking to exploit the tears of sobbing families to increase their own power and take away our constitutional rights. Every time a disturbed or a demented person commits such a hideous crime there’s always a grotesque effort by some in our society to use the suffering of others to advance their own extreme political agenda. Even more repulsive is their rush to shift blame away from the villains who commit acts of mass violence and to place that blame onto the shoulders of millions of peaceful law abiding citizens who belong to organizations such as our wonderful NRA.
When Joe Biden blamed the gun lobby, he was talking about Americans like you. And along with countless other Democrats this week, he was shamefully suggesting that Republicans are somehow okay with letting school shootings happen, they’re not okay with it. This rhetoric is highly divisive and dangerous, and most importantly it’s wrong. It has no place in our politics. As always in the wake of these tragedies, the various gun control policies being pushed by the left would have done nothing to prevent the horror that took place, absolutely nothing. Unfortunately, ever since Columbine, we’ve been afflicted by a contagion of school shootings carried out by deeply evil, violent, and mentally disturbed young men.
While we don’t yet know enough about this week’s killing, we know there are many things we must do. We need to drastically change our approach to mental health. There are always so many warning signs, almost all of these disfigured minds share the same profile. When people see something, whether on social media or in school, they need to say something. Teachers, parents, school officials, and community members need to be recognizing and addressing these alarm bells promptly and very, very aggressively. And our school discipline systems, instead of making excuses and continually turning a blind eye, need to confront bad behavior head on and quickly.
And clearly we need to make it far easier to confine the violent and mentally deranged into mental institutions. We have also very importantly, got to deal with the problem of broken families because no law can cure the effects of a broken home. There is no substitute for a strong mom and a great dad. But while we work to address these deep, complicated issues and deal with this scourge, all of us must unite, Republican and Democrat in every state and at every level government, to finally harden our schools and protect our children.
What we need now is a top to bottom security overhaul at schools all across our country. Every building should have a single point of entry. There should be strong exterior fencing, metal detectors, and the use of new technology to make sure that no unauthorized individual can ever enter the school with a weapon. No one should ever be able to get anywhere near a classroom until they have been checked, scanned, screened, and fully approved, so important. In addition, classroom doors should be hardened to make them lockable from the inside and closed to intruders from the outside. And above all, from this day forward every school in America should have a police officer or an armed resource officer on duty at all times.
Moreover, at every police department in America, we need a rigorous training on active shooter protocols to immediately locate and eliminate the target, took too long. And we need to expand funding, recruiting, and training for police departments nationwide. This is not a matter of money, this is a matter of will. If the United States has $40 billion to send to Ukraine, we should be able to do whatever it takes to keep our children safe at home. Thank you. That’s true.
That’s true. We spent trillions in Iraq, trillions in Afghanistan, we got nothing. Before we nation build the rest of the world we should be building safe schools for our own children in our own nation, right? Last year alone, Biden and congressional Democrats sent 122 billion in so-called COVID relief funds to K through 12 schools, even while they were keeping many of our schools totally shut down, no doubt, severely worsening the mental health challenge of many youth. I mean, many of these young people really suffered very greatly. It became very ill. They may have been ill to start, but they became very, very ill. Congress should vote immediately to take back every penny of unused COVID relief money, take it back from the states and use that money to quickly establish impenetrable security at every school, all across our land.
As many have noted inner city schools rarely have these kinds of mass shootings, I didn’t know that until just recently. Think of that, they rarely have this problem despite being located in very tough neighborhoods, in many cases where there’s tremendous levels of high crime and violence. They’re much more dangerous outside the school than inside. The reason is that for decades, inner city schools have had much stronger security measures in place in the school itself, including metal detectors, and yes, armed guards. They had guns, armed guards. Whatever our differences may be on other issues, what on earth is stopping Democrats from immediately passing measures to ramp up school security?
How many more tragedies will it take until they agree to set aside their far left political agenda and do what is really needed and what actually works? This is not about virtue cycling and signing, this is about blaming your enemies, no, we don’t want to do that. This is about saving our children’s lives. Yes, that’s what we want to do. Surely we can all agree, our school should not be the softest target, our school should be the single hardest target in our country. And that’s why as part of a comprehensive school safety plan, it’s time to finally allow highly trained teachers to safely and discreetly concealed carry. Let them concealed carry. And again, they have to be able to handle it, they have to be highly trained, all of those things, but let them do that. It would be so much better and so much more effective even from a cost standpoint.
Because there is no sign more inviting to a mass killer than a sign that declares a gun free zone, most dangerous place. I know it sounds good, and it really does, doesn’t it sound wonderful? But it’s not. And statistically, it’s a total disaster. Gun free zone, they look at that sign and they say, “That’s where I’m going.” We cannot have that because if somebody goes into that building all of those innocent people will be taken out, will be killed, will be tortured, bad things will happen, have to get rid of it. As the age old saying goes, the only way to stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun. Have you ever heard that? No, you’ve never heard that. And in the absence of a member of law enforcement, there is no one you would rather have nearby when a crisis strikes than an armed, expertly trained, member of the NRA, true.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you to Matt. What a job. He and Mercedes have done. CPAC is a hot item. You got a lot of people standing outside trying to get in. Would anybody like to give up their slot? Would anybody? I want to just pay my respects. CPAC is really, what a job they’ve done, and I’m thrilled to be back in the heart of Texas with the proud conservative patriots, who are courageously leading the battle to frankly save our country. That’s what it’s about.
For a year before election, the fake news media said Texas was in play. It’s in play. You know what in play means? Like it’s close. And they were right, except it was totally in play for me. For me and you, actually. No, it was in play for me. They said, “The polls have closed in Texas. Donald Trump has won Texas.” But how long did we listen to it? It was in play. it will never be in play if we have the right candidate. This state is never going to be in play. this is a very, very special place, and we’re going to keep it the way it is, and we’re going to bring back your energy.
I told you this was going to happen. I told you. Actually, Texas believed us. With the help of everyone here today, we will defeat the radical left, the socialists, Marxists, and the critical race theorists. Whoever thought would be even using that term. We will secure our borders. We will stop left wing cancel culture. We will restore free speech and fair elections, and we will make America great again. It’s very simple. Very simple.
From the very beginning, the people in this room have been some of the staunchest and fiercest supporters of our incredible movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country. And I can say that, and nobody ever even challenges me. Look at all those fake news people back there. They don’t challenge us. They don’t even challenge.
I want to personally thank each and every one of you for your incredible support, and your support of CPAC. You never stopped fighting for me, and I will never, ever stop fighting for you. Promise. I especially want to thank two wonderful and really extraordinary people who make this incredible event possible. You know them almost as well as I do. Matt and Mercedes Schlapp. Thank you, thank you. Stand up, please. Thank you. Thank you. Great job. Great job. You’ve taken it to a whole new level. I appreciate it. Everybody appreciates it.
Thank you. It’s true. We all won. We all won. Also with us is a true Texas conservative, and a real leader. Where is he? Ken Paxton. Where is he? Oh, look at that. And he is. He’s fast on the draw. We love Ken. Thank you, Ken, very much. We appreciate you being here.
He’s going back home to mom. His mom is a big supporter of ours, by the way. He’s going to have a rough night. We’re grateful to be joined as well by a wonderful, wonderful, not only political person, but a wonderful person, Governor Kristi Noem. Governor. Thank you, Kristi. Great job. And we have many, many members of Congress here. Could I ask our great Congress men and women to stand up please, right now? What a group. What a group. What a group. All warriors. Thank you very much. Thank you, fellows. Warriors. Truly are, they’re truly warriors.
And countless other conservative leaders and politicians and people that we love and we respect, and we are fighting with and we are fighting for. For generations, the American conservative union has helped lead the charge to defend our values, protect our country, and preserve our glorious American heritage. You see they’re taking our heritage away. That’s not going to happen. Not going to happen.
We were doing so well until the rigged election happened to come along. We were doing really well. But today that heritage is under threat like never before. Who would have thought this could have happened? Even Bernie Sanders is saying, “I never thought this could happen.” He’s mild by comparison. In a matter of mere months, Joe Biden has brought our country to the brink of ruin. Right here in Texas we are the epicenter of a border and migration crisis unlike anything anyone has ever seen before in the history of our country.
At the same time, they have totally obliterated your energy industry. I told you. Under my administration, we achieved a historic reduction in illegal immigration. Never happened before to that extent, and not even close. We ended the horrible catch and release, where we catch a criminal and release him into our country. We actually said, “Nope, it’s called stay in Mexico.” And it worked very well, and we had the support of Mexico. Who else could do that? And you have a great president of Mexico, a friend of mine. He’s done a great job. We’re on opposite sides of the spectrum, but we got along great, and he’s been terrific, and I appreciate it.
We stopped asylum fraud, and we struck critical agreements with other countries to stop illegal immigration. We called it, in fact, remain in Mexico. You don’t come here. Get released, and you never see these people again. They don’t come back. They say, “Come back in three years for a court case.” Only the really not smart ones. I want to be nice. Only the real not smart ones come back, which is about one percent.
We reduced drugs pouring across our border by the highest percentage ever. History of our country. Not just people. We shut down the migrant caravans. You haven’t seen those caravans. Get ready, because they’re coming up right now. You’ve been watching them come through. In those caravans, you have some deadly people.
We dealt a crippling blow to MS-13. We deported criminal aliens by the thousands and thousands and thousands, and we built almost 500 miles of border wall, the exact wall that the border patrol wanted. I thought we could use nice concrete plank. Just knock it out. They said, “Sir, we want steel, concrete, and rebar. And it has to be wired, sir. So we can all the drones the Democrat…” Remember they wanted drones? I said, “Drones are not going to stop people.” Do you remember the statement during the campaign? Two things. Everything’s obsolete like two days after they come up with it nowadays. Computers, everything obsolete. They got a better one.
Two things, right? What are they? Wheels and walls. They never change. In a thousand years, you’ll say, “Wheels and walls.” Walls work. Walls work. Just ask Nancy Pelosi. She has a nice wall around her house. Now the Biden administration has turned the border into the single greatest disaster in American history, and perhaps in world history. Nobody’s ever seen a border like this. Other countries don’t have a border like this. Illegal border crossings are up over 1,000% from last year. Think of this. Think of this
For the last three months in a row, more illegal alien minors have arrived than any other month in United States states history. This is the major pipeline for MS-13. These are the worst gang members, they say, anywhere in the world. They bring recruits to every state in our country. they run it like a business. But not with me. We were throwing them the hell out of here so fast. ICE, ICE. ICE, the great patriots. Tough people, ICE. And they’ve been disrespected. We can’t have them disrespected. Border patrol. Brandon’s here some place, probably. Where the hell is Brandon? He is so great. What a job he’s done. Yes, thank you. Thank you. ICE and border patrol.
Overall, illegal youth arrives, and arrivals are up nearly 500%. Think of that, and they’re being resettled in cities and towns all across the United States at tax payers’ expense. And the people in those cities and towns have no idea that they’re coming. The tax payers will also be forced to pay for relatives to be flown from Central America to join them. Did you ever hear of chain migration? You come in illegally, and we’ll also bring your mother, your father, your grandparents, your brothers, your sisters, your aunts, your uncles. Anybody else want to come in? Come on in.
We had on the West Side Highway. He was driving rapidly down the West Side Highway at a very excessive speed. New York City, Hudson River, beautiful new park. And he saw people working out. A big group of people, and he decided to make a right turn, and he killed many, and he maimed many. People go out because they want to put themselves in shape, and they end up going back home missing a leg, missing a couple of arms, or dead. That’s what happened. And he had the right to bring people in with him. His family, his mother and father, and his brother. And he had many that he brought in, but we took very good care of him.
But this administration doesn’t do that. Many of these children, for the first time ever, it’s a terrible thing that’s happening to them, are on suicide watch. They end up in a place that they have no idea where it is. No idea. Not the border. Our whole country has become a border. Meanwhile, ICE removals are at the lowest level ever, and they are great people. They’re patriots and they’re tough. The agency has been functionally shut down. All of America’s now one giant sanctuary city. We were fighting sanctuary cities, and doing very well. They’re meant for criminal aliens. That’s what they’re meant for. Under our administration, we sent a very different message to the coyotes, human traffickers, child smugglers, vicious criminal cartels, and savage MS-13 gang members. When I was president, illegal alien criminals knew that if they trespassed across our border, they would be caught, they would be detained, and they would be sent to jail, or we would send them the hell back to where they came from. We created the most secure border in all of American history by far.
Biden’s border crisis is also helping drive an unprecedented crime wave, and you see the crime wave. Even without this you see all in Democrat run cities. Please remember that. The bloodshed and violence in these cities is reaching epidemic proportions. Homicides are up 42% in Los Angeles, 37% in Philadelphia, 68% in Atlanta, and over 500% in Portland over this time last year. Think of that. Portland. What they did to Portland, and nothing happens to Antifa, and nothing happens to BLM. But to people that are patriots or conservatives or Republicans, they stay in jails for extended periods of time, and they destroy their lives. We’re not going to take it anymore.
In New York City, crime is out of control. It’s at record levels with nobody being prosecuted except of course innocent Republicans are being prosecuted. The Democrats know their policies on crime are so unpopular, so radical, so crazy, they are now trying to pretend they never led the defund the police movement in the first place. Disinformation. “We never said defund the police. You know who did it? The Republicans did it.” That’s what they do. It’s called disinformation. How about Russia? “Trump had to do with Russia. He loves Russia. He loves Putin. He loves everybody.” Turned out to be the Democrats, right? After two years, they figured, gee. And after awhile, people actually believed this stuff. But now they’re saying, “Defund the police. We didn’t say it. It was the Republicans.” It’s called disinformation. You have to be wise to it.
It’s very simple. If you support defunding the police, vote for the radical left Democrats, and you see what’s happening to the cities where they defunded the police. There’s never been anything like it. If you want more police and more cops on the streets, vote for America first Republicans or let’s put it very simply, vote for MAGA. Make America great again. MAGA. MAGA, MAGA, MAGA. The same far left Democrats who are defunding police are also leading an all out crusade to strip you, the law abiding citizens of America, of your God given Second Amendment rights. I told you again. I told you. I told you. And I preserved that right 100%, and you think that was easy? It wasn’t easy. There was so much pressure. There was so much pressure. Republicans must never waiver in demanding that the right to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed. Can’t let it happen. Thank you. Thank you very much. But it’s not only the Second Amendment that the leftists want to destroy. They are hard at work to abolish the First Amendment as well. Probably all amendments, when you get right down to it. Why not? The radical left and big tech’s attack on free speech is unlawful. It’s unconstitutional, and it is completely un-American. To protect the Constitutional rights and liberties of every citizen, this week I filed a major class action. Lot of people are joining. Yep. A big class action lawsuit against the big tech giants. We are suing Facebook, Twitter, and Google. And to show you the arrogance, I was just talking to Mercedes, I guess.
Matt, you announced that they’re trying to take this incredible, I think much more than 50% of our country. I really do. Because there’s no way they can be 50% with defund the police, sanctuary cities. And all of the crazy things that they espouse. There’s now way. But I heard they just filed where they want to take everybody down. Honestly, they’re going too far. They’re going too far. They’re so spoiled. It’s like a spoiled child. “I want that toy, dad. But I also want this one, this one, this one.” Eventually bad things happened.
We are taking Mark Zookerbucks, Jack Dorsey, and the other Silicon Valley billionaires to federal court, and we will keep on fighting until we have stopped this assault on our liberties and until we have restored the sacred right to freedom of speech for every single American. Who would have thought? Who would have thought? Who would have thought? Could anybody believe we’re even talking about this subject two years ago, three years ago? Who would have believed it?
In addition to their malicious attacks on free speech, these Silicon Valley tyrants are also attacking our democracy itself. The big tech election interference in 2020 was an outrageous assault upon our Republic and upon the American voter. Terrible thing has happened to our country. We’re being laughed at all over the world. Our election has been studied by other countries. They’re not going to do it that way. Mark Zuckerberg alone spent $ 400 million dollars on election meddling. In virtually all of the key swing states, he funded unmanned and unprotected drop boxes that were deployed in Democrat run cities and heavily Democrat precincts to scoop up ballots which were supposedly 94, 95, 96% for Joe Biden, because he campaigned so well from his basement. How about where Biden did substantially better in the swing states than Barack Hussein Obama with the black population? Now, even though he did terribly throughout the country. But in those five places, he did very well. You know about that, Louie, right? He did five places, he did very well. Beat Obama with the black population. I don’t think so. But they practiced that and countless other schemes to illegitimately and illegally boost the Democrat vote. The drop boxes were often very late. Where are they? Where are they? What happened? They’re supposed to be here. They’re not. I can tell you what happened. Sometimes late by days in showing up to the vote counting areas.
At the same time, the big tech giants worked together to suppress and diminish news coverage that was negative for Joe Biden. Look at all these stories that came up, and they were wiped out. Anything negative for Biden or the radical left Democrats, they just suppressed. And the most horrendous example, the oldest newspaper in America, and one of my favorites. It’s a great one. The New York Post broke one of the biggest scandals ever to emerge in a presidential election, providing extraordinarily detailed evidence of the corruption of Joe Biden and where’s Hunter Biden? You know where he is? He’s painting right now for 500,00 a piece. Where’s Hunter? His highest and best use, I can tell you, is in a studio to paint. Even though he’s never painted before. He set a record for the highest price for a person that never painted a picture before. Never did a painting before.
Then without any basis whatsoever, Twitter and Facebook banned the New York Post’s account of this terrible story. After the election, one poll showed that at least 10% of Joe Biden’s voters would have switched their vote if they had known about Joe and Hunter Biden’s scandals, enough to flip the results of numerous states. But don’t worry about it, because we won those states anyway. We won them all. Probably the only thing I disagree with. It wouldn’t have mattered. They would have found the votes. They would have found those votes. If it was reported, they would have found the votes. Little more, they would have churned out some more ballots.
The truth was covered up, and it had a giant impact on the election. This must never happen to another party’s presidential candidate again. Can never happen. We are a laughing stock all over the world. A laughing stock. And you know who knows it better than even the people in this room? Democrats. They know it. Furthermore, these big tech companies interfered with and undermined the sacred integrity of the ballot box by censoring any honest discussion of election fraud. You say election fraud, you get canceled. That’s the one thing they want to stay away from. The cancel culture, they’re very tough on it. But the thing they really don’t want is because we’re too close to home. We got too close. Read Time magazine from four months ago, the cover story. They couldn’t help themselves. It doesn’t go all the way, but it goes far enough, and you see what
It doesn’t go all the way, but it goes far enough and you see what they did. They want to stay away from talking about the election results. Every time the media references the election hoax, they say the fraud is “unproven. And while there is no evidence … ” No evidence? There’s so much evidence. You saw what happened in Georgia the other day. They found 35,000 votes. Then they deleted in Georgia over 100,000 votes. Because they were so bad voters, I said, “Why didn’t you try doing it before the election? Lost by this much. Why didn’t you do it before the election?” There’s bad things going on in this country, very bad things. We always had the reputation of being a wonderful, brilliant country for voting, and now everyone knows. They’ve watched, they’re very smart, and they see what happened.
The governor of Georgia and Georgia secretary of state let us down. They let us down. And by the way, the voting law they passed is far weaker than that of Texas and other states. You hear that, Mr. Attorney General? They don’t even have signature verification. Could you imagine passing a voting law? But they’re getting a little good … because everyone thinks, “Oh, they’re passing this … ” no, it’s not. And you notice they’re the only state that’s being sued by the federal government. You know why? Because it’s an easy target, because the governor and the secretary of state won’t defend like that guy will defend.
So I only speak the truth. So true. And the reason the Attorney General of the United States is going after Georgia is it’s so bad what they’ve done, and they’ll probably win, and that defense won’t take place. They go out and they really worked very hard on finding the right state to look at. Now Stacey Abrams in Georgia got them to sign what’s called a mandated consent decree, which was not approved by the legislature, therefore it’s illegal, and makes it very easy for Democrats to cheat and to win elections. You don’t have too many of them in Texas, do you, Louie? Doc Ronny, do we have … the great Doc Ronny, my doctor, became a Congressman. He only beat 22 people. 22 people, he was great.
I said, “Doc, how about if I take a cognitive test?” He said, “Well, you can do it, sir. But if you do, it’ll be public.” Well, I said, “What’s wrong with that?” He said, “Well, if you don’t do well, sir, it’s not going to be pretty.” I said, “Is it hard?” He said, “After the first five questions, it gets very hard.” I said, “Let’s take a shot at it,” and we did it and we aced it, right? I aced it.
And one of the doctors said he’s never seen anybody that aced it. And some of those questions are not easy. I will tell you that. How do you think Joe would do on a cognitive test? You never know. Maybe he’s … underneath there, there’s somebody that’s very unusual. Unfortunately, this was an election where the person that counts the votes was far more important than the candidate, no matter how many votes that candidate got, and we got record numbers of votes. It’s a disgrace to our nation and we are truly being scorned and disrespected all over the world. Never forget that the radical left is not the majority in this country. We are the majority and it’s not even close. It’s not even close. 
And when you look at their policies, there’s just no way that can happen. There’s no way. Weak military. They fight against the military, always fighting budgets, military. We need strong military right now, so strong. And having rebuilt the US military is one of my greatest achievements. It was a sick and tired military. The equipment was old and depleted. And now we have those brand new F-35s and everything’s brand new, and we have a great military, or it’s coming soon and they won’t be able to stop it.
But the radical left cheat in elections and the fake news media cheats in polling, like having me down 17 points just before the election in Wisconsin. “Donald Trump … ” ABC News, Washington Post, just before … now when people hear that, it’s called suppression, they say, “We love the president, but we’re going to stay home. Let’s watch television, Harry.” I said, “That’s a good idea. Harry’s going to stay home with Janet.”